# A focus on transparency, automation and security with a GitOps DevSecOps platform

These are some thoughts I have had on the topic of GitOps and DevSecOps. There
are good sides and bad sides.

## The good sides

In the dynamic field of software development, particularly for organizations
with a broad suite of applications and a microservices architecture, GitOps
emerges as a beacon of efficiency, transparency, and security. Implementing
GitOps, greatly improves how organizations manage their development and
operations. A thumb rule for me is that when you go beyond 10 applications on a
cloud platform you should think about implementing gitops.

### The Core of GitOps: Streamlined Operations and Enhanced Collaboration

GitOps utilizes Git as the single source of truth for managing infrastructure
and applications, offering an unprecedented level of control and transparency.
This method excels in environments where managing custom configuration states
for web apps and serverless architectures is crucial. It simplifies deployments,
fosters collaboration, and ensures consistency across environments by automating
processes using the defined configurations in Git repositories.

The opposite side is the toll when managing 10 applications which are configured
in 10 different ways. Each time a developer changes to another application, they
need to understand the configuration and deployment process. This can be a
time-consuming and error-prone process. GitOps solves this problem by providing
a single source of truth for all applications and infrastructure.

### The role of DevSecOps automation

Generally in the software industry we have seen a shift-left approach in
security. This means that security is not only the responsibility of the
security team, but also the responsibility of the development and operations
teams. Which IMO is crucial as developers and infrastructure engineers are the
ones who are building and deploying and therefore are the only ones who can
implement security.

A DevSecOps platform leans on CI/CD principles to automate security checks and
compliance policies. This ensures that security is integrated into the
development and operations process, rather than being an afterthought. In
addition, it can quality gate work with a benchmark of security and compliance.

## The bad sides

Generally, I think there are more good sides than bad sides. But there are some
bad sides to GitOps and DevSecOps.

### The complexity of GitOps

GitOps is not a silver bullet. It can be complex to implement and maintain. It
requires a significant investment in time and resources to set up and maintain
the infrastructure and processes. It also requires a cultural shift in the
organization to adopt a GitOps approach. This can be a challenge for
organizations that are used to traditional/messy development and operations
processes.

### The risk of over-automation

Automation is a key part of GitOps and DevSecOps. However, there is a risk of
over-automation. This can lead to a lack of human oversight and control over the
development and operations process. It can also lead to a lack of flexibility in
the development and operations process, as everything is automated and rigidly
defined.

## Conclusion

GitOps and DevSecOps are powerful methodologies that can greatly improve how
organizations manage their development and operations. They
streamline operations, enhance collaboration, and automate security checks and
compliance policies. However, they are not without their challenges. They can be
complex to implement and maintain.
